# Dengue_IOBW
## Fig_3_EDM_Dengue

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This folder includes data, code and output files in our EDM analysis.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A description of each file and folder is provided below:

  **01_data:** a folder containing the database (in .csv format). 

  **02_output:** a folder to save the model outputs including figures generated by the `R` scripts.

  **03_main.Rmd:** `R` script to load packages and run all the EDM analyses. 

  **04_data_formatting.R:** `R` script to load the data and preprocess dengue incidence and climate data.
  
  **05_sin_tau.Rmd:** `R` script to run cross-correlation analyses

  **06_sin_E_Tp_theta.Rmd:** `R` script to determine the dimensionality of the variables and if the variables are predictable (i.e., if governed by determinisitc processes).
   
  **07_data_formatting_FigS10.Rmd:** `R` script to generate surrogate data for CCM.
    
  **08_sin_ccm_FigS11_S12.Rmd:** `R` script to run univariate EDM, using actual data, the ebisuzaki null and the seasonal null data.

  **09_mul_ccm.Rmd:** `R` script to run multivariate EDM, using actual data, the ebisuzaki null and the seasonal null data.

  **10_Scenario Exploration.Rmd:** `R` script to run scenario exploration analyses.

  **11_Fig3A.Rmd, 12_Fig3B.Rmd, 13_Fig3C.Rmd, 14_FigS11.Rmd, 15_FigS14.Rmd, 16_FigS15.Rmd:** `R` scripts to plot.
  
  **EDMdengue-main.Rproj:** An `RStudio` project file to facilitate access to the code and data. 

Download the repository, then open the .Rproj file in `RStudio` to begin. 

The analysis was performed using R version 4.2.1.
