# Dengue_IOBW
## Fig_4_SEI-SEIR model

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This folder includes data, code and output files in our SEI-SEIR model analysis.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A description of each file and folder is provided below:

  **01_data:** This folder includes observed dengue cases from 2014 to 2019 among 24 countries, along with temperature-dependent and -independent parameters in SEI-SEIR model to predict the oscillation of global dengue epidemics.

  **02_output:** Model outputs and results are saved in this folder. It also includes output data generated during the analysis and plotting process.

  **03_sim_aeg_with-iobw_20ens.R** and **04_sim_alb_with-iobw_20ens.R:** These `R` scripts load and process data required to run SEI-SEIR models for Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus transmission separately under senario with IOBW index for predicting dengue cases.
  
  **05_sim_aeg_without-iobw_20ens.R** and **06_sim_alb_without-iobw_20ens.R:** These `R` scripts load and process data required to run SEI-SEIR models for Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus transmission separately under senario without IOBW index for predicting dengue cases.

  **07_cctest.R:** This `R` script calculates the correlation between predicted and observed cases, aiding in the selection of optimal parameter combinations for each country. 
  **Note:** Due to the large size of the data files, they are not included in the data folder. Instead, they are generated by running the following scripts: *03_sim_aeg_with-iobw_20ens.R*, *04_sim_alb_with-iobw_20ens.R*, *05_sim_aeg_without-iobw_20ens.R* and *06_sim_alb_without-iobw_20ens.R*.

  **08_sim_aeg_with-iobw_20ens_sens_IC.R**,
   **09_sim_aeg_with-iobw_20ens_sens_ID.R**,
    **10_sim_aeg_with-iobw_20ens_sens_ratio.R**,
    **11_sim_alb_with-iobw_20ens_sens_IC.R**,
     **12_sim_alb_with-iobw_20ens_sens_ID.R** 
     and **13_sim_alb_with-iobw_20ens_sens_ratio.R:**, 
  These `R` scripts load and process data for statistical sensitivity analysis. 

  **14_Fig_4B_N-S_obs-sim_plot.py:** Python script for plotting Figure 4 (B) Seasonality of reported and model-simulated standardizsed dengue cases in the Northern Hemisphere and the Southern Hemisphere from 2014 to 2019 in 24 countries.
  
  **15_Fig_4C_heatmaps_plot.py:** Python script for plotting Figure 4 (C) Comparing model-simulated and reported standardizsed monthly dengue cases in 24 countries.

  **16_Fig_4DEF_epidemiological_test_with-iobw_plot.Rmd:** `R` Markdown script for plotting the results of the epidemiological sensitivity analysis between predicted and observed epidemiological indexes.

  **17_Fig_S17_temperature_14-19_with_without_plot.Rmd:** `R` Markdown script for plotting figure S17 Time series of local temperatures from 2014 to 2019 simulated by CESM2 in scenarios without and with IOBW events.

  **18_Fig_S19_case_14-19_with_without_plot.Rmd:**  `R` Markdown script for plotting figure S19 Time series of the dengue cases from 2014 to 2019 simulated by CESM2 in scenarios without and with IOBW events.

  **19_Fig_S20_epidemiological_test_without-iobw_plot.Rmd:**  `R` Markdown script for plotting figure S20 Scatterplot of the predicted number, peak timing, and size for outbreaks without the use of IOBW events compared to observations.

  **20_Fig_S21-23_aeg_with_iobw_sens_plot.R** and **21_Fig_S21-23_alb_with_iobw_sens_plot.R** plot figure S21-23. 

  **SEI-SEIR.Rproj:** An `RStudio` project file to facilitate access to the code and data.


Download the repository, then open the .Rproj file in `RStudio` to begin. 

The analysis was performed using R version 4.2.1.